In this bonus video,
I'm going to share some of the results I've gotten by using LinkedIn.
Of course, I wouldn't create a class on LinkedIn if I hadn't used
these strategies to actually gain work and grow my network.
I want to show you guys what you can actually achieve using LinkedIn.
By no means am I saying I am the ultimate master when it comes to LinkedIn,
but the principles and the lessons that I've shared with you in this class have been
proven to work as evidenced by the opportunities that have been presented to me,
and I just wanted to share some of that with you now.
If I go into my messaging tab here,
you can see some of the conversations I've had.
I might be blurring out some of this because these
aren't all conversations I want to have as public,
but there's some opportunities that have come through in
my inbox by doing all of the stuff I've talked about in this class with LinkedIn.
Another place where I'm getting messages is my Sales Navigator inbox.
Again, we talked about Sales Navigator briefly in a earlier video.
I have used Sales Navigator to reach out to people outside my network to gain work,
and that has been successful as well.
I want to show you some examples of what I've
done and how it has resulted in me finding work.
If I go back to my messaging tab here,
and actually, I'm going to go to Sales Navigator first.
I believe I messaged somebody named Alistair at a company, I'm going to search it here.
I sent him the message that I shared in a previous video here.
Here it is again, a simple message as I broke down in an earlier video.
I just want to get in touch with you and just putting it out
there if you ever need support when it comes to Shopify theme development,
don't hesitate to get in touch.
I've listed my number down here which I've blurred out for you guys.
What happened from that was I got a message directly on LinkedIn.
I got to go back to this other inbox,
which is again LinkedIn's weird with how it does messages,
and I got a message from somebody at their firm,
the founder and CEO.
It says, "Hi Chris,
Alistair passed on your details and mentioned you
were looking for freelance Shopify plus work.
We actually have quite a bit going on at the moment,
so send me an email at this to start the discussion.
Cheers." That simple message that was sent January 6.
I got a message back from the founder of that agency two days later.
About two days later,
I started working with that client.
I worked with them for a few months and did over 200 hours of work.
Obviously, my little message here,
putting it out there worked and there was quite a quick turnaround.
Now, not saying that there's always going to be a quick turnaround,
that was hit the nail on the head there in terms of timing,
but some of my outreach, obviously,
I don't get a response back from,
some of my outreach they say,
"Thanks, we'll keep you in mind."
Some of them, I actually get a response back later on.
See how here I say,
"If you're ever in need of support when it comes to Shopify,
don't hesitate to get in touch."
Some of them actually do get in touch months down the track.
That happened recently with this particular client here.
I have a slightly different message here that I'm sending to them,
but it's the same structure.
"I just wanted to get in touch with you because
your firm offers Shopify development as one of their services."
Starting straight away with why this message is
relevant and why I'm messaging this person specifically.
Then of course ending with,
"If you ever need, let me know."
He accepted it. He said,
"Always good to have some extra contract as handy."
He asked me a question about my experience with headless Shopify using Gatsby.
I said I haven't done Gatsby before,
but I have created a headless e-commerce app project before,
sent him the link, and then I followed up because there was no response.
We didn't end up working together for,
as you can see here, that was in July,
and we didn't end up working with each other until
September when he had a few Shopify sites coming up.
The point is here that they might not always have work for you straight away,
but you're just building that connection.
You just putting it out there.
This is why you don't want to be pushy.
Maybe they don't have the work right then and there,
but they will have in future.
The way I see it is by doing this outreach,
I'm just saying, "Look, I'm here,
I'm the ideal person to help you with this need
once it comes up," and if they really need help with something,
they'll keep me in mind.
In this case, it did. It came through.
Now, those are two examples of
times where it's come through for freelance work on LinkedIn.
Sometimes I've spoken with a few people and actually connected with them on the phone,
but for whatever reason,
it wasn't working out or they didn't like my rates.
These aren't the only two examples of it working.
But oftentimes, there's other factors involved
and sometimes they want somebody to come on full time,
or it's just not the right fit.
You're going to get a whole lot of different responses back.
One of them being no response at all,
so be prepared for that.
But I think this approach of just giving them a soft little promotion of what
you do and putting you in front of them is
a nice little strategy to get you some possible work.
I will mention here that the message is optimized for the service I provide.
I know that these agencies continually provide this thing that I help with,
but they might not always need it.
It works for my industry.
Make sure you use your own common sense here and you are an industry knowledge.
For your industry, you might not want to say,
"Hey, I do this.
If you ever need help, reach out."
Maybe you are aware that they need something right now,
so maybe you do want to be a bit more, let's say, salesy.
Again, it all depends on your industry.
The main principle I want to get across here is that,
if you do have a targeted profile,
it's clear what you do and who you serve,
and you reach out to those people who you serve directly,
then there's not much bad that can happen from that and you might
just end up getting some work or some referrals through it.
As is the case for me,
I definitely got some work through LinkedIn.
I want to show you something else that's not related to outreach.
Through doing all that I've done with my profile,
I've have gotten companies outreaching to me specifically.
I had an interesting opportunity come up with a fashion brand nearby called LSKD.
As you can see here, I had Keith reach out here,
and he was interested in my experience,
and he's looking for a developer to work on the Shopify store,
and they were looking for somebody on a consultancy basis.
Obviously, recruiters use LinkedIn.
It's a primary tool they use to find talent.
You can use a lot of what I've said here to find a job if you're interested in,
and maybe an interesting opportunity comes across
your profile and you want to take it up,
and maybe you pursue that rather than a freelance job.
But also sometimes you might get a recruiter reach out
and want to work with you on a consultancy basis as well.
I ended up having a core with these guys,
ended up going into the office.
In the end, it didn't end up coming to fruition.
I think in the end they hired somebody full time.
But it just goes to show that if your profile is targeted,
that opportunities can find you as well.
This is not the only opportunity that's come my way.
I'll sometimes have referrals come through.
For instance, if I just roll down here,
I had this person who's part of another group that I'm involved in,
wanted me to work with one of their clients on Shopify store development.
Unfortunately, I was at capacity at the time.
Let me have a look at what else we've got here.
I also had this guy reached out to me.
He says, "We would like to enhance and customize a purchased Shopify theme.
We have our own designer who'll provide the artwork.
Once you reply all share the full brief where for discussion."
Again, opportunities can find you as well as you seeking opportunities for LinkedIn.
I definitely like that about LinkedIn,
that it's a larger audience.
Professionals use it, It's the premier network.
Not everyone is on app work obviously,
and a big deterrent of using Upwork is all
the business that you generate on Upwork has to go through Upwork,
and go through their system,
which a lot of people aren't going to want to do.
I'm liking LinkedIn at the moment.
But the reason why this all works,
and the point that I've been stressing throughout the whole video,
which you'll hear me say one last time here,
is that if you know exactly who you
serve and the service you provide to that target audience,
then you can reach out directly to them on LinkedIn and start promoting yourself
to a wider audience by positioning yourself as an expert in that particular niche.
Those are a few examples of opportunities I've gotten through LinkedIn.
Again, wouldn't teach you stuff that hasn't worked for me,
so rest assured that the information in this class is coming from personal experience.
If you have any questions on this,
obviously you can leave it in the discussion box below.
If you have anything to contribute,
definitely leave that in the discussion box below.
We're all here on Skillshare to learn and grow.
It's not about one person having all the answers.
If you want to share your knowledge on this class as well, I'd appreciate that.
But otherwise, that's the end of the class.
I will see you in the conclusion where I will tell
you that what I am looking forward for your class project.
Thank you for watching,
and I'll see you in the next video.